# Python to MacOS portable app

## Purpose

This page explains, how to create MacOS portable application with help of python module py2app

### py2app Installation

```bash
pip install -U py2app
```

### Building app

* Need to create setup.py file for project. Go to directory where python script "MyApplication.py" created

```bash
py2applet --make-setup MyApplication.py
```

This will create the file setup.py, which is responsible to tell setuptools how to build your application.

Content of setup.py should be like as follows :

```bash
"""
This is a setup.py script generated by py2applet

Usage:
    python setup.py py2app
"""

from setuptools import setup

APP = ['MyApplication.py']
DATA_FILES = []
OPTIONS = {'argv_emulation': True}

setup(
    app=APP,
    data_files=DATA_FILES,
    options={'py2app': OPTIONS},
    setup_requires=['py2app'],
)
```

* Replace app name "MyApplication.py" with your script name in the APP variable.

```bash
APP = ['application_name.py']
```

Also, if your application uses some data files, like a json or a txt file, you should include it in DATA_FILES. For example:

```bash
DATA_FILES = ['myfile.json', 'myfile.txt']
```

* Now, compile your project in Alias mode. This will tell py2app to build an application that uses the source data files in-place. Note that this means that the application will not be portable to other machines (we’ll do that next!).

```bash
python setup.py py2app -A
```

You will have two new folders inside your working directory: build and dist. The first one is used for building your app (you don’t have to touch it) and the second one contains your application bundle.

From the working directory, you can run your app using:

```bash
./dist/application_name.app/Contents/MacOS/application_name
```

or you can find your application in Finder and open it from there (you’ll find it in dist/application_name).

Once your application is running, we are ready to create the stand alone version. First remove the build and dist folders with:

```bash
rm -rf build dist
```

and next, build your application:

```bash
python setup.py py2app
```

Next, try to run your app, and see if it works.

Once you’re application runs correctly, and you’re happy with the results, you can share it by copying the application bundle dist/application_name.

